The carburization behaviors o f three Fe based alloys (310 Stainless Steel, Incoloy
800HT and Haynes 556) have been investigated under varying high temperatures and
different ratios o f methane/hydrogen gas mixtures. The study involved cyclic and
isothermal exposures o f the above alloys to different carburizing conditions and
microstructural characterization o f selected exposed samples using advanced analytical
techniques (scanning electron microscopy, X ray diffraction and X ray photoelectron
spectroscopy). Thermodynamic analysis indicates that the gas mixtures (2  and
10 CH/H2 with oxygen impurity less than lOOppm) are mixed oxidizing/carburizing
below approximately 1000°C while reducing carburizing fo r chromium in excess o f
1000°C, where 1000°C is a boundary condition. Kinetic and microstructural results
indicate that, fo r the three Fe based alloys, the external continuous layers formed at
lower temperatures (<I000°C) consist primarily o f different oxides and carbides which
are responsible fo r the improved protection, however at higher temperatures (>1000°C)
the external scales consist o f carbides or metallic Cr rich phases which are
discontinuous and non protective leading to increased weight gain. 31 OSS suffers both
internal and external carburization attack at 800°C in 2 CH/H2, while it experiences
external carburization at 1100°C in 10 CH/H2. The presence o f Co in Haynes 556 is
beneficial fo r the improvement o f carburization resistance. Nickel and Cobalt play an
important role in combating carburization especially when an external continuous layer
is not formed at elevated temperatures. Under certain exposure conditions, despite the
carbon activity exceeds unity metal dusting has not been experienced during this study.