In spite o f the considerable research work in the area o f concrete durability in the
aggressive environmental conditions o f the Arabian Gulf, there is a lack o f pertinent
quality compliance criteria for the locally produced concrete. Compressive strength of
concrete is often considered as the unique quality criterion. As a result, the concrete
suppliers try to achieve only the target strength without any proper consideration to the
durability aspects. Therefore, in most cases, the concrete constructions fail, by one way
or another, in durability thereby leading to disputes on the quality compliance between
the concrete suppliers and the end users.
This research aims to develop appropriate concrete quality compliance criteria through an
extensive experimental investigation using typical materials available in eastern Saudi
Arabia. The experimental program consisted o f testing the concrete specimens prepared
with different mix proportions. Type I cement, Abu Hadriah aggregates and dune sand
were used in the mixes and the variables were: four levels of w/cm ratio, three levels of
cementitious materials content, and three types o f plain and blended cements (Type I,
type I + 7.5  silica fume and Type I + 20  of fly ash). The following tests were
conducted in the experimental program: (1) compressive strength; (2) pulse velocity; (3)
rebound hammer (4) water penetration; (5) rapid chloride permeability; (6 ) Chloride
diffusion; (7) time to initiation o f reinforcement corrosion and (8 ) corrosion current
density.
Correlations between the results of various tests and the concrete mix parameters and
compliance criteria in terms of both the strength and durability indices were established
for local concrete.