Concurrency control is the activity of preventing harmful
interference among asynchronous parallel processes. In this
research work, the problem of supporting concurrent
operations in the interpolation based grid files is studied.
A systematic approach that demonstrates an effective method
for detecting conflict between processes is defined. A
scheduling system that exploits the numbering property of
the structure and employs the conflict detecting method is
presented. The scheduler achieves a higher degree of
concurrency than concurrency mechanisms developed for
B trees on the average case .and the same degree of
concurrency in the worst case. Efficient algorithms for
concurrent operations in two structures; namely
Multi dimensional Linear Hashinjg and Interpolation Based
Index Maintenance are presented. Both of these structures
are extensions of Linear hashing to the multi dimensional
case. The concurrent scheme presented is an adaptation of
the one proposed for linear hashing. The algorithms include
searching for, inserting, and deleting data elements. These
algorithms support a high degree of concurrency and are
shown to be correct based on the restrictions imposed by the
comaptibility scheme.