Suboptimal linear quadratic control law of high dimensional
systems based on reduced order models derived via balancing
reduction method is derived. The proposed law is compared to
suboptimal control laws based on aggregation and singular
perturbation. Performance evaluation based on stability,
suboptimality degree, quadratic cost degradation, closed loop
step responses and controls, and closed loop pole positions
has shown the superiority of the proposed suboptimal control
law. The comparison is done through the application of the
suboptimal control laws to several physical plants. The base
of the comparison is the optimal control law. Also, a new
reduction method, which combines features of balancing and
aggregation, called Balagg is introduced and evaluated.
The use of reduced order models based on balancing,
aggregation, balagg, and singular perturbation in pole
placement is also considered. In pole placement, two design
purposes are considered: 1. placing only some of the open loop eigenvalues and 2. shaping the open loop responses, to nominal
ones. Aggregation and balagg perform the best for the first
design purpose while none of reduction methods meet the second
design purpose.
Throughout the thesis, the work is done for both continuous
time and discrete time systems.