A single phase two dimensional mathematical model was used to predict the performance
o f a gas well intersected by two perpendicular vertical fractures . The fractures half lengths
( Xj andyj.) were assumed to extend equally on both sides o f the wellbore . The fractures were
assumed to have either infinite or finite conductivities . The analysis o f the simulated
drawdown tests at constant flow rate showed that the transient flow behavior o f a gas well
intersected by finite conductivities ( Fa < 500) perpendicular fractures does not exhibit
neither the bilinear flow behavior nor the formation linear flow behavior when y^f Xj is greater
than zero . Instead it showed that the log log plot o f pD versus tDxf presented slopes higher
than the characteristic slopes o f the bilinear and linear flow periods . On the other hand when
the fractures conductivities were equal to or greater than 500, the formation linear flow period
was observed . The square root method was used to determine the fracture half length from
the formation linear flow period and found to give a fracture half length that is equal to the
sum o f the fracture half lengths (jy +  »y)  A t early times and for fracture conductivities up to
0.2a , the pressure drops, pD , calculated for the cases where y^ I x^are greater than zero were
lower than those for single fracture (jy / Xj.~ 0 .0 ). But , as the fractmre conductivity
increased the calculated pressure drops were found to increase to values higher than those fo r
the single fracture cases after some time. This time was found to be a function o f fracture
conductivity where it decreased as the fracture conductivity increased . The results when
plotted as a function o f pD versus l o g for both infinite and finite conductivities
perpendicular vertical fractures gave , for large tDxf, a I. 151 slope straight line . Hence,
semilogarithmic pressure analysis methods can be applied.