Pure and Multicomponet equilibrium date are reported for Linde 5A,
13X and S 115 adsorbents at pressures up to 250 psia and in the
temperature range of 275 to 350°K. The intrinsic Henry constants are
extracted from the data using viri@ql isotherm techniques. The pure
component data are modelled by four simple isotherm (LRC, Toth, Mathews
and Weber, Jaroniec) and one statistical thermodynamic isotherm
(Ruthven). The multicomponent form of Ruthven's isotherm is developed,
and used to model SA and 13X data. The multicomponent Toth model is used
to model the S 115 data.

For the 5A pellets, the Toth model fits the data for all four
components. The Ruthven model is best for methane, ethane and propane.
The four simple isotherms (LRC, Toth, Mathews and Weber, Jaroniec) fit the data for silicalite (S 115) but the Ruthven model is not applicable.
Only isotherms of methane and propane have been measured for 13X
zeolite. All models fit the methane data but the propane data is not
well fitted by any models. Toth, Mathews and Weber and Ruthven model are
the best.

Binary, ternary and quaternary data sare reported at 300°K and at 50
and 95 psia. For the SA and 13X pellets these dats are analysed and
modelled with the multicomponent form of Ruthven's model and the fit is
reasonable with intrinsic Henry constant for SA and mith optimized Henry
constant for 13X pellets. The multicomponent Toth model is used to fit
the multicomponent data for the silicalite pellets and the fit is
reasonable. Considering equilibrium only the separation of methane is
greater in silicalite than in 1734 þÍÊý in 5A pellets.