Gelled polymers are being applied increasingly as a
reservoir flow control agent to improve the water to oil
ratio in water flooding. Having so much data and so many
methods available in the literature, it is difficult to
explicitly judge the effect of various parameters on the
gelation process. Therefore, a mathematical approach for
determining the relative importance of each parameter and to
derive the empirical relation between process variables is
needed. Specifically, the present study examines the effect
of four parameters on the gelation process. These are the
polymer type, the initial polymer concentration and redox
concentration, and the temperature.
A factorial analysis was carried out to identify the
influence of each factor on gelation time. Power relation
was then employed to develop the empirical relation between
the gelation time and the affecting parameters. To achieve
this goal, the data available in the literature were studied
and relevant tables were produced for the factors and their
responses. Statistical analysis was carried out to identify
the most affecting parameters, multiple regression analysis
was employed to relate the gelation time to the affecting
parameters, and dimensional analysis method was introduced
to develop the power relations, which were then, utilized
for the optimization process.